README.md, before:

# brewbox
A DIY smart fermentation box for homebrewing, pickling, or fermenting foods, with automatic temperature control and fan ventilation. Built using Arduino and basic electronic components.

## Table of Contents
- [Component List](#component-list)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)

## Component List
You will need the following parts to build the box:
- 1x **Arduino Nano** (or compatible board)
- 1x **12V Fan** (for ventilation)
- 1x **Liquid Crystal Display** (for displaying data)
- 4x **Buttons** (for navigating the menu and adjusting settings)
- 1x **Heating Mat** (wall-powered with a relay or switch)
- 1x **Insulated Container** (cooler, mini fridge, or foam box)
- 1x **12V Power Supply** (for the fan)
- 1x **2 Channel Relay Module** (to switch heating mat and fan on/off)
- 1x **Buzzer** (For alarming if the temperature goes dangerously high)
- Jumper wires, breadboard or soldered PCB
- Temperature sensor (e.g., **DHT22** or **DS18B20**) I am using **DHT22**

## Installation
Follow these steps to set up the project locally:
1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/A-Alanen/brewbox.git
   cd brewbox
    ```

2. **Install Arduino IDE**
    Download from https://www.arduino.cc/en/software
    Install the correct USB driver for your Arduino board if necessary

3. **Open the Code**
    Launch Arduino IDE
    Open the .ino file inside the arduino_files folder

4. **Install Libraries (if needed)**
    Some sensors may require external libraries (e.g., Adafruit's DHT library)
    Use Library Manager in Arduino IDE (Sketch > Include Library > Manage Libraries...)

5. **Upload to Arduino**
    Connect your Arduino board via USB
    Select the correct board and port in the Arduino IDE
    Click Upload

## Usage
Once your hardware is set up and the code is uploaded:
    Set the desired temperature, fan duration, heating mat duration and off duration thresholds.
    The heating mat turns on automatically when the temperature drops below the threshold.
    The fan activates to circulate air as needed.
Place your fermenting container inside the insulated chamber and monitor the environment with optional temperature readouts.

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.
You are free to use, modify, and distribute the code, but any derivative works must also be open source and licensed under GPLv3. See the full license text in the [LICENSE](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).

Commit message:

Bug fixes, added features and documentation updated
Made the code fully functional, added hysteresis and buzzer speaker fuctionality and added config.h header file

README.md, after:

# brewbox
A DIY smart fermentation box for homebrewing, pickling, or fermenting foods, with automatic temperature control and fan ventilation. Built using Arduino and basic electronic components.

## Table of Contents
- [Component List](#component-list)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [License](#license)

## Component List
You will need the following parts to build the box:
- 1x **Arduino Nano** (or compatible board)
- 1x **12V Fan** (for ventilation)
- 1x **Liquid Crystal Display** (for displaying data)
- 4x **Buttons** (for navigating the menu and adjusting settings)
- 1x **Heating Mat** (wall-powered with a relay or switch)
- 1x **Insulated Container** (cooler, mini fridge, or foam box)
- 1x **12V Power Supply** (for the fan)
- 1x **2 Channel Relay Module** (to switch heating mat and fan on/off) **The code assumes that the relay module is active low**
- 1x **Buzzer** (For button pree sounds and for alarming if the temperature goes dangerously high)
- Jumper wires, breadboard or soldered PCB
- Temperature sensor (e.g., **DHT22** or **DS18B20**) I am using **DHT22**

## Installation
Follow these steps to set up the project locally:
1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/A-Alanen/brewbox.git
   cd brewbox
    ```

2. **Install Arduino IDE**
    Download from https://www.arduino.cc/en/software
    Install the correct USB driver for your Arduino board if necessary

3. **Open the Code**
    Launch Arduino IDE
    Open the .ino file inside the arduino_files folder

4. **Install Libraries (if needed)**
    Some sensors may require external libraries (e.g., Adafruit's DHT library)
    I use:
    - **DHT sensor library** by Adafruit (for DHT22 temperature/humidity sensor)
    - **LiquidCrystal** library (for LCD display)
    Use Library Manager in Arduino IDE (Sketch > Include Library > Manage Libraries...)

5. **Upload to Arduino**
    Connect your Arduino board via USB
    Select the correct board and port in the Arduino IDE
    Click Upload

## Usage
Once your hardware is set up and the code is uploaded:
    Set the desired temperature, hysteresis, fan duration, heating mat duration and off duration thresholds.
    The heating mat turns on automatically when the temperature drops below the threshold.
    The fan activates to circulate air as needed.
Place your fermenting container inside the insulated chamber and monitor the environment with optional temperature readouts.

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.
You are free to use, modify, and distribute the code, but any derivative works must also be open source and licensed under GPLv3. See the full license text in the [LICENSE](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).
